# thesis
my thesis
CHAPTER 1


	General Introduction

The oil and gas facility are one of the most important vital industrial and commercial sectors, and with the increase in other industrial sectors, the need for more energy has arisen, as the oil facility is one of the most important sources of renewable energy.  This means that we need to store as much of these oil derivatives as possible.  However, there is a great concern about the process of corrosion and rust to which these assets are exposed, as that facility suffers from the process of corrosion and rust in a way that calls for continuous inspection and monitoring. Corrosion is one of the biggest problems in the oil sector companies because of the cost of repairing damaged parts or replacing them with non-corroded ones. Corrosion is defined as the destructive attack of a substance by interaction with its environment [1]. Corrosion is therefore the tendency of these unstable metals to return to their more stable natural form (ore). So, we're invited to look for the basic way to reduce the corrosion of these structures and find the best solutions to avoid this problem. Regular inspection and monitoring of these tanks is one of the most important ways to reduce risk and corrosion because they help to detect early damage, prolong the life of these tanks, prevent the closure of the oil facility or the suspension of production processes, and, most importantly, protect us from legal and financial accountability for leaks caused by the corrosion process and their destructive impact on the environment. The traditional inspection and maintenance process is very expensive and takes a longer time due to its complex nature and dangerous environment, but it is a necessary matter that must be taken care of and given sufficient care and attention to the catastrophic risks that may be inflicted on the environment and humans as a result of the effects of corrosion and the consequences resulting from neglecting the inspection process and monitoring. Analysis of major refinery accidents over the past 35 years has shown that loss of containment due to corrosion has contributed to more than 25% of the root cause of these accidents on a larger scale and contributes to corrosion in its various forms, with more than 42% of the failure mechanisms in all engineering structures [2]. We are paying a heavy price for corrosion. The costs attributed to all kinds of damage have been estimated to be from 3% to 5% of the gross national product of industrialized countries [3]. The total annual cost of corrosion in the oil and gas production industry is estimated at $1.372 billion, divided into $589 million in surface pipelines and utility costs, $463 million per year in well bed piping expenditures, and another $320 million in corrosion related capital expenditure [4]. Corrosion also costs the oil and gas industry tens of billions of dollars of lost income and processing costs each year [5]. It costs the US industry alone an estimated $170 billion annually, with oil and gas accounting for more than half of these costs [6]. Despite considerable improvement in the design process and the selection of metals that are excellent in making these tanks, this is not enough to ensure their safety. The introduction of modern inspection techniques such as climbing robots and manned UAV has been rapidly evolving, but it is insufficient and the approach to the development of inspection and inspection mechanisms and the introduction of more sophisticated technique has been maintained to date. These UAV are used in several fields, including in the field of inspection and monitoring as they are used in the process of searching for missing persons and monitoring illegal immigrants, monitoring vital infrastructure and detecting hidden corrosion in aluminums structures. UAV and checking railway surface defects… etc. Researchers in the field hope that UAV inspection systems will be developed and modernized for use in oil and gas tank inspection, as they can play a significant role in reducing inspection time, cost and risks to maintenance personnel.
1.2 Problem Statement
Tanks are a critical component of oil facilities. As a result of the environment surrounding the facilities and the changing weather (rain, high temperature, cold, etc.), these tanks are affected by several damages such as rust, corrosion, cracks, and others, which causes fluid leakage. In addition, the oil can cause a corrosion in the internal surface of the tank due to the chemical reactions between the oil components and the metal of the tank, which is resulted by leakage in the tanks. Therefore, these tanks need a semi-annual inspection process to ensure their safety and capacity for storage. Traditionally, Workers carry out the inspection process for these tanks and make sure of their safety, but this process is very difficult and takes a long time to complete, and this process is very expensive and dangerous. Therefore, an appropriate method must be found in which the tanks are inspected in a smooth manner that saves time, money and safety.
1.3 Objective
	To develop an automatic visual inspection system oil plant using UAV and AI-based sensor fusion.
	To extract the features of the defects on the oil plant using image and signal processing algorithms.
	To propose a novel AI algorithm for noise elimination and classifying of the defects based on human experts transferred on laser simulator logic algorithm
	To develop a control system to drive the UAV in point-to-point path during inspection process. 
1.4 Scope
The limitations of the project are as follows:
	The maximum height of oil tank is 9 meters.
	The distance must be sufficient for the movement of the UAV between the tanks.
	The tank should be of a uniform color.
	The central region of the tank surface must be unwritten.
	Perform an inspection in appropriate weather conditions such as no rain or wind.
	Performing inspection during daylight hours.
	The size of the images being processed must be greater than 1 mega pixel.


















CHAPTER 2

LITERATURE REVIEW


2.1 Introduction 
This chapter provide a literature review of the methods of inspections oil and gas tanks and how they evolved from manual inspection to use robots with different techniques, also this chapter more basic to understand the main concepts and works that are related to our research. Oil and gas tanks maintenance professionals want to develop new, inexpensive and safe tank inspection techniques so that problems that may be encountered in tanks can be addressed before significant damage occurs. These ideas become very popular and there is a dearth of researches that talk about them, so we collect more details about methods of inspection oil and gas tanks.
2.2. Typical damage in steel storage tanks 
We can explain the typical damage that occurs in the storage tank and its risk evaluation method as follows: 
In Lyubomir and Mariya’s patent, have mentioned that for structures to last for a long time, correct design and construction must be paired with frequent and effective maintenance. Therefore, common failures in the steel storage tank must be identified [7]. Several typical damages were found in the foundations, such as the cracking between the asphalt cover and the reinforced concrete ring wall that causes vegetation to grow. Typical damage to the tank shell and roof includes paint coating deterioration and intensive corrosion processes. Others are missing connection bolt assemblies, damaged seals, and more. Some measures need to be taken to increase the safety of all vertical steel tanks during the design stage, fabrication, and construction stage, during operation and repair works [7]. 
 
Figure 2.1 Damage of the tank shell [7]

Another patent was done by P. Cirimello et al. that presented a significant leak in a crude oil tank. Many oil storage tanks have occurred (a material deficiency, structure design, failures, operation error, etc.). Any storage areas containing hazardous or flammable chemicals must be examined for potential dangers before construction, during operation, and after shutdown [8]. Fracture and computational fluid dynamics models were constructed to analyze the causes of the failure and rebuild the sequence of events. The leading root causes of the breakdown were deficiencies in tank construction, maintenance adequacy, and corrosion prevention. Several lessons gained, such as an acceptable wall thickness monitoring plan, ensuring the execution of effective corrosion protection technologies in the interior and external wall surfaces, and more, were used to reduce the chance of recurrence of such events [8]. 
 


Figure 2.2 Collapsed Washer Tank at the oil treatment plant [8].
Kang et al. studied the new risk evaluation method for an oil storage tank. Employees, equipment, and the environment are at risk in oil storage tank zones, which store large amounts of toxic chemicals and energy with a high risk of unintended release. As threats become more varied and complicated, risk evaluation approaches are required to quickly discover hazards and effectively assess safety performance [9]. The proposed method first identifies the harmful factors that contribute to the significant hazards and then analyses and classifies them based on two types of hazards. After that, the Major Risks Evaluation Method (Flammable, Explosive, and Toxic) is used to assess inherent hazards. In contrast, FTA, Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP), and a fuzzy complete evaluation model assess controlled hazards (FCE). Finally, the risk matrix approach establishes the overall risk rank and provides risk classification guidelines. The inherent dangers are the deciding factor in the accident consequence's ranking. The higher the inherent dangers rank, the greater the severity of accidents. It is critical to develop safety management and improve hazard prediction to avoid or minimize the likelihood of accidents [9].
 


 Figure 2.3 Framework map of the evaluation process based on two types of hazards theory [9]
2.2 INSPECTION TECHNIQUE
Robert Bogue conducted a study about the application of robotics in tests and inspection. Robots are becoming more prevalent in a wide range of test and inspection (T&I) activities, from simple visual inspection to advanced non-destructive testing/evaluation (NDT/E) approaches [10]. This article discusses automated test and inspection products and methods for pipelines, storage tanks, bridges, marine applications, renewable energy generation, and aircraft. This demonstrates that automated test and inspection techniques are employed in a broad array of applications across a wide range of sectors. The ability to use several different procedures simultaneously to discover potential flaws, lower labor costs, and, in many cases, faster testing and data acquisition rates than possible with human operators. It's unavoidable that their use expands in various situations where massive or hazardous constructions must be inspected [10]. 
 
Figure 2.4 Storage tank inspection robot [10]
Wang et al. has researched metal atmospheric storage tank inspection. There is a substantial risk of leakage and pollution to the environment. Effective inspection for metal atmospheric storage tanks is required to limit the operational risk of metal storage tanks [11]. This research proposes an effective inspection method that uses magnetic flux leakage and acoustic emission testing technology. The corrosion evaluation for the bottom of the metal atmospheric storage tank can be done using the Nondestructive Testing (NDT) procedures of Acoustic Emission (AE) and Magnetic Flux Leakage (MFL). On-line inspection is possible with the AE, whereas off-line inspection is possible with the MFL [11]. 
 
Figure 2.5 Comparison of MFL inspection data with real data by cutting the plate off [11]
Aljarah et al. proposed magnetic internal corrosion detection sensors for exposed oil storage tanks. Several corrosion-inspection systems are on the market to identify interior and external corrosion of oil storage tanks. However, storage tanks are only inspected every 3 to 7 years. Aggressive corrosion can occur between inspection intervals, making the oil and gas industry prone to accidents [12]. In this paper's corrosion detection sensor design, the rare-earth magnet diameter is determined, and the gap between the magnet and the steel disc is kept as narrow as feasible. The storage tank can be represented by a steel disc or a rectangular steel plate if the surface area of the disc or rectangular steel plate exceeds the surface area of the magnet. The sensor's thickness detecting range can be tested by altering the steel plate thickness while keeping all other parameters constant. The material loss that occurs on the internal surface of the oil storage tank due to corrosion is represented by different thicknesses of steel plates. If the overall size of the sensor can be lowered without sacrificing the metal loss detection range, the sensor suggested in this paper can be improved even more [12]. 

 



Figure 2.6 Schematic design of the proposed corrosion detection sensor [12] 
Another proposed method by Deif et al. by using a microwave sensor for corrosion prediction in steel tank bottoms. An internal inspection can be done with ultrasonic measurements to determine sheet thickness, but external inspection is impractical without access to the tank's bottom [13]. The technique of microwave-based sensors is introduced for defect prediction. The array comprises microwave spiral ring resonators (SRR) that are electromagnetically connected to a transmission line and are equally distant and similar. A resonance shift will occur if the sensors' environment is disturbed by any faults, such as an air breach, liquid intrusion, or corrosion initiated, indicating coating hazards. The data clearly illustrate that the sensors have errors and how the quantity of defects translates to new stopbands. The amplitude at the main resonance frequency decreases as the number of defects increases. We want to demonstrate the sensor's ability for mass manufacture and wide coverage because we're targeting oil tanks [10]. In Oyekola et al.’s patent, robotic models are used for unmanned crack and corrosion inspection. Due to stress, loading conditions, the environment of operation, and other factors, the production of fractures and corrosion occurs after prolonged use of materials, compromising the structural integrity of structures. Deployments of mobile robots with fault tracking and identification purposes are continuously rising to lower the cost of inspection and downtime due to inspections and maintenance [14]. Image enhancement, contrast modification, and fractal thresholding were part of the image processing methodology. Image pre-processing aims to remove any unnecessary aspects that may hinder analysis while boosting the Desi features. The fracture length was estimated in the output image, which was obtained by specifying the approximate region of the source image. The modification of the crack continuity algorithm and the classification of crack kinds and forms could be the topic of future research [14]. 
 
Figure 2.7 Final output showing crack length [14]
Another research done by San-Millan presented a design of a teleoperated wall-climbing robot for the oil tank. These robotic platforms are typically used in environments where human operators face a chance of injury. Such tasks can now be automated due to robotic technology [15]. For the inspection of oil tanks, the robot is designed to be equipped with several application sensors. The control interface is thus programmed in such a way that, after the required Bluetooth connection handshake between the robot and the Android device, bidirectional communication is established, allowing not only to send commands to move the robot but also to receive all data produced by any sensor connected to the robot's microcontroller. The proposed prototype has been tested in the lab, demonstrating its capacity to travel in any direction across a ferromagnetic surface and climb up walls despite welding lines without losing adhesion force or becoming stuck [15]. 
The technology of inspection oil and gas tanks is one of the fields that is developing increasingly (continuously), due to the importance of the materials that are stored and the need to preserve them.  In recent years, with the scientific revolution, the field has developed like other technical fields that are most important in human life. Inspectors in this field have raced to use different methods to facilitate the process, such as designing assistive robots, and benefiting from computer science, such as image processing, to artificial intelligence, and UAV. It is a technique of using several fields to help the human being (the human factor), such as computer science and UAV.
2.3 Current inspections methods 
The oil and gas industry operate according to stringent standards that primarily strive to keep equipment running efficiently while maintaining workplace safety. Routine inspection has significant impact on the maintenance cost throughout oil and gas plant’s operating period [16]. The complex set-up and hazardous environment of an oil and gas industry increases the risks and challenges in performing IMR tasks. The employers have to put themselves at risk, any time they want to inspect the high-rise vertical structures like flare stacks, storage tanks, boilers, cooling towers, chimneys and other confined spaces. Based on the inspection method, current inspection methods employed in oil and gas industry can be divided into (i) Manual inspection and (ii) Robotic inspection.
2.3.1 Manual Inspection
Inspectors use many techniques to inspect tanks such as Installation of scaffoldings around the structure, Rope access techniques, Elevation platforms supported by cranes and Manned and remote-controlled helicopters.
2.3.2 Robotic Inspection
Manual tanks inspection techniques are very expensive, risky, time consuming and ineffective, attempts to improve the efficiency of inspection task lead to the use of robotic technology for inspection oil and gas tanks operations. The robotic solutions used for inspection oil and gas tanks are: -
2.3.2.1 Wall climbing robots (WCR)
 In recent years the maturity and stability of climbing technologies have resulted in increasing number of climbing robots in industrial applications [18]. Automating the manual inspection tasks with WCR could permit large savings in monetary and human cost. Robotics and mechatronics researchers have been demonstrated a variety of climbing robots for vertical infrastructure inspection. Typically, these robots are inspired by reptiles, mammals and insects and their type of movement varies between sliding, swinging, extension and jumping. The design and control complexities involved in developing locomotion for the WCR on vertical surfaces like stability, flexibility, surface contacts issues, power consumption, overheating of motors, and climbing between adjoining surfaces etc. limits their ability for most of the practical applications.  WCR systems that have been developed for external inspection of storage tanks are mostly tethered and semiautonomous remote-controlled systems and hence reduces the flexibility of the system. The MATS robot has 5 DOF and a symmetrical mechanism that showed good mobility features for travel, however, it requires special docking stations to hold itself. A prototype model, Walloid was designed for offshore oil and gas facility inspection that can choose the adhesion method increases its robustness and flexibility needed for industrial applications [19]. A bio-mimicking robot, Sticky Bot, has a hierarchical adhesive structure under its toes to hold itself on any kind of surfaces [20]. To evaluate the degree of corrosion of the metal plates, periodic inspections are done by using Non-Destructive Test (NDT) equipment that can measure the thickness and evaluate the integrity without causing any damage to the area under inspection. A climbing robot for corrosion monitoring of reinforced concrete structures such as cooling towers are developed by combining a vortex adhesion mechanism with a wheel electrode sensor for potential mapping of concrete structures [17]. These robots could not only replace a worker undertaking risky tasks in a hazardous environment but also increase the efficiency of such tasks. However, they require complex mechanical designs, special materials and complicated dynamics analysis. As the size of WCR is very less when compared to the size of the structures to be inspected, the possibility to inspect the whole surface region of the tank without any omits will be very less. And also, their application is limited to specific type of structures, such as cylindrical-shaped structures. UAV platforms are a feasible alternative to achieving the same goals as climbing robots and involve a much simpler mechanism. 
2.3.2.2 Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs)
 The introduction of drone technology in oil and gas industries revolutionized the inspection of high-rise structures by offering a more long-term and sustainable option compared to other available methods. Drone inspection involves capturing, storing and analyzing large quantities of data that are gathered during a drone flight. Avoiding climbing utilities such as roping systems, scaffolds etc. flying inspection robots can provide a means of efficient and frequent facility health monitoring without endangering inspection staff or extensively impeding plant operation. Inspection drones fitted with visual cameras and Infra-Red (IR) cameras can help in implementation of RBI inspections of Oil & Gas assets under API RP-580 as well as Fitness-For-Service Analysis under API 579-1 / ASME FFS-1. Inspection Drones which are designed for operations in closed or congested spaces can prove extremely advantageous for inspection carried out under piping (API 570-Piping Inspection Code) and tankage (API 653-Tank Inspection, Repair, Alteration and Reconstruction) [21]. First fully functional UAV to inspect plant assets, such as flare stacks, were at the UK onshore oil refineries in year 2010. With this technique, for the first-time operators got the chance to understand condition of their equipment before any kind of shutdown, and without exposing work personnel to risky environment [22]. This system has enabled engineers to continuously monitor critical components located at difficult height in plant structures, such as chimney stacks, ducting, pipe racks, and vents, while allowing them to prioritize maintenance, relocate budgets, defer shutdown, reduce the time for turnaround and order replacement parts before turnaround. While performing the inspection tasks, the UAVs are operated manually by a certified pilot to navigate the UAV along the structure to be inspected and the data obtained from inspection sensors such as HD camera, thermal camera, hydrocarbon leak detection sensors etc., while flying is then analyzed by an experienced inspection engineer to identify the faults like hairline cracks, corrosions, gas leakage etc. Since, the drones can carry cameras with 4K video recording and optical zoom and various other sensors, there is no need to get the drone too close to the live structures or other risk areas.  The drone based inspection in oil and gas industry is getting more attention due to (i) its ability to inspect areas that are potentially hazardous (ii) cost effective as well as efficient inspection method (iii) its ability to inspect a large area in less time and (iv) the operation of the drone does not require a highly skilled inspector. Many third-party companies are now offering the UAV inspection solutions for the oil and gas industries.
2.5.1 Path planning for UAV 
Huang et al.’s patent shows a new dynamic path planning approach for the unmanned aerial vehicle. Dynamic path planning is one of the most important unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) procedures to complete various missions [23]. A coordinate transformation is used to move the map's origin to the path's starting point and by the source-destination direction, which improves path searching performance. Cost functions are used to describe dynamically changing dangers, and the cost value is treated as a scalar number for mobile threats, which are vectors. The cost values of the path, mobile threats, and overall cost are optimized using the ant optimization technique when searching for the best moving direction for a UAV. In the presence of mobile and static dangers, the proposed path planning approach allows UAVs to go from their starting point to their objective for less money. To attain a more valuable path planning, path planning in a twodimensional environment can be turned into a three-dimensional environment [23]. 
 
Figure 2.8 Flowchart of the proposed algorithm [23]
Another patent is done by Ge et al. that presents path planning of UAVs for oilfield inspection based on the improved grey wolf optimization algorithm. Many businesses are already adopting UAV inspection technology, and path planning is vital in UAV inspection [24]. First, a model of the oilfield environment is created; second, the basic grey wolf optimization (GWO) algorithm generates the initial path; third, the fruit fly optimization (FOA) algorithm is used to continue the local optimization of the optimal solution; and finally, the optimal path is generated. As a result, GWFOA outperforms other algorithms in terms of UAV path planning for oilfield inspection. The GOW method combined with the FOA algorithm is beneficial for path planning, and the FOA algorithm is better for local optimization. The future works plan to build the best UAV path for oilfield inspection in a three-dimensional environment [24]. 
2.5.2 UAV for visual inspection using the camera 
In Novak et al.’s patent, several aspects of the aircraft's maintenance procedure can impact its quality and safety. It is vital to set up tools and processes to remove human factor failure as feasible to decrease the risk of human influence in aviation maintenance [25]. The initial phase in the process is a visual assessment of the airframe. Following that, data processing must be performed in two phases: overall image (RGB image) processing of prescribed parts for inspection and video processing and identification of anomalies on the airframe and parts of the aircraft. We can confirm the idea that small Maintenance, Repair, and Overhaul (MRO) and Continuing Airworthiness Management (CAMO) organizations can employ UAV technology to control aircraft successfully. Small MRO and CAMO firms' future lies in digitization and the application of modern technology to acquire a competitive edge in the air transport sector [25]. 
 
Figure 2.9 In-Flight (Vision) screen of the operator performing the airframe inspection [25]
 According to Asadzadeh et al., drone technology has the potential to transform the petroleum industry's mapping, monitoring, inspection, and surveillance activities by making massive amounts of data collection faster, safer, and more cost-effective [26]. Drones have become a reliable platform for professional data collecting thanks to recent improvements in sensor technology and navigation systems. They also provide a versatile and adaptable platform that can be installed with any sensor (active or passive) to describe a target in real-time. Because the vehicles function at a low height (about 120 meters), they are not affected by clouds and can be utilized at any time for monitoring. Furthermore, the picture's spatial resolution can be customized, given the versatility of the flying altitude. Offshore oil spill detection, oil leak detection, and pipeline monitoring, gas emission sensing, remote facility inspection, petroleum exploration (i.e., land surveying, geologic mapping, and petroleum exploration), and environmental monitoring are six major sectors that we recognize [26]. 
Table 2.1 Common thermal IR imaging cameras for drones [26]
 
Research on the design and optimization of an unmanned aerial vehicle for pipeline inspection was done by Hasnain et al. Regular inspections are usually carried out by gas, oil, and electrical power companies, which can be done by a helicopter equipped with external gimbals housing infrared and ultraviolet cameras to detect heat differences, or on foot, which requires individuals to inspect power lines from the ground level [27]. The UAV is advanced, with a payload capacity of 5kg and a range of 50 kilometers. A gasoline-powered engine allows it to carry more fuel and fly for longer periods. The dihedral effect created by a tapered wing design gives the aircraft more lift and stability while reducing the load on the engine. The wing configuration minimizes the needed thrust produced by the engine, allowing it to perform better. The UAV's fuselage form allows it to carry the most fuel possible, covering a longer range while incorporating a high-resolution scanner for pipeline inspection. Thermal imaging cameras of the greatest quality can detect even the tiniest leak [27]. 
Table 2.2 Translation of Mission Requirements into Design Requirements [27]
 
Another research was done by Shukla et al. that presents autonomous tracking and navigation controller for a UAV for oil and gas pipelines. With the depletion of cheap resources and the hurdles of exploiting newly discovered resources in harsh environments, oil and gas corporations are turning to robotic solutions to solve their concerns [28]. These essential assets must be inspected and maintained regularly due to their harsh environments. The suggested automation approach analysis must be done in real-time, as the UAV navigation is based on realtime visual data. The overall automation process is broken down into four subproblems: extracting points of interest from a stream of photos, recognizing the structure to be inspected, and building controllers for structure tracking and automated navigation. This novel navigation control mechanism also features two correction loops for angular and lateral corrections. Standard automation increases production speed and improves safety and cost efficiency by reducing the likelihood of human error in repetitive jobs [28]. 
 
Figure 2.10 Two levels of PID controllers for angular and lateral correction [28]

Other than that, research done by Alharam et al. presents a Real-Time AI-Based pipeline inspection using a drone. Human contacts are now used to conduct such inspections in Bahrain, which are deemed costly, unsafe, and may harm the environment at some time [29]. Visual inspection can be readily replaced with a live video streaming camera carried by a drone by automating the inspection process and leak detection to decrease human contact. The proposed payload carried on the drone, on the other hand, will be used to replace the manual gas leakage detection process. As a result, a detection process that took minutes or hours to complete manually now takes milliseconds with our technology. Furthermore, this device requires no human intervention, ensuring staff safety from poisonous and explosive gases. This technology significantly decreases the length and cost of the inspection procedure. Image processing would be advantageous in assuring inspection quality in a more redundant system [29]. 
2.5.3 Visual inspection of oil tank storage using UAV and camera 
Mattar and Kalai have proposed developing a wall sticking drone for non-destructive ultrasonic and corrosion testing. Many researchers have built many robots for wall-crawling to conduct continuous inspections, but there is no definite answer. The risk of unintentional fall owing to operational failure in the hostile environment, such as high wind and the surface's unexpected condition, is one of the significant reasons why existing wallcrawling robots have not been used in the field [30]. When the drone gets close enough to the target, it will attach to the wall, and the probe will start transmitting ultrasound as soon as it makes contact. It collects measurement data and shows it in real-time on a laptop at the ground station. After getting the data, the operator will switch off the command, and the drone will be free to fly to the next chosen station. Even when the target structure is coated with an anti-corrosion paint layer or any other type of coating that prevents the EMs from working, the test can still be completed successfully thanks to the backpressure generated by the drone, which keeps the probe in place with good stability. It was shown that the ultrasonic testing method of NDT and various other NDT procedures could be accomplished using UAV [30]. 
 
Figure 2.11 The deployed ultrasonic probe and testing method [30]
Other than that, research done by Trujilo et al. presents the novel aerial manipulator for accurate and robust industrial NDT contact inspection. There is a significant need to create alternatives to manual inspection [31]. AeroX is a fully autonomous global navigation satellite system (GNSS)-free contact– flying mode during contact. The robot uses only its internal sensors to maintain its relative position to the surface contact point. During the autonomous flight, the inspector can move the end-effector on the surface with uninterrupted contact to precisely pick where A-scan measurements or continuous B-scan or C-scan inspections should be performed. These tests were a complete success, proving that the suggested robot and its operational process are practical tools for touch inspection in real-world situations. The development and integration of end-user functionalities to autonomously implement B-scan and C-scan inspections using the automatic vision-based relative localization assistant and the extension of the developed aerial robot to other industries using other sensors in the end-effector, are currently being worked on [31]. 
 
Figure 2.12 Control architecture of AeroX [31]
2.6 Sustainability using UAV and camera for inspection 
In previous research. Cho et al. have studied the safety and security management with UAVs in the oil and gas industry. Because oil and gas products are extracted and stored on open ground facilities and transported at great distances by pipelines or cargo ships with little security protection measures, the oil and gas infrastructure has been frequently exposed to numerous unsafe circumstances [32]. Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) can constantly monitor possible disaster circumstances. A UAV's maximum operating time and distance are limited by the rate of battery charge and the full battery charging limit. There are four key choice variable groupings in this problem. To initiate, a UAV's battery charging level must be determined. Second, a path must be assigned to a UAV with the required operable capability. Battery charging rate and charged level must be planned in the third and fourth steps. For several UAV operations, the model minimizes the hourly cost. The numerical experiment confirmed that the model could monitor all susceptible security checkpoints with the fewest number of UAVs possible within a given time frame. Because this optimization model is still in its early stages of research into the use of security UAVs in the oil and gas industry, it can be expanded in various ways to reflect a variety of actual real-world scenarios [32]. Other than that, research done by Kridsada et al. presents sustainability through UAVs for aerial plant inspection. Traditional inspection methods involved staring up via binoculars from ground level, which is unsuitable because detail distinction is difficult. Using a manned helicopter as an alternate option raised questions about the safety of flying a helicopter around and above a functioning plant [33]. The challenges of operating under extreme conditions such as heat radiation and turbulent air conditions are incorporated in the design and calculations linked to the Multipurpose Plant Inspection Octocopter (MPIO's) constructions. All flight operating circumstances, such as wind speed, heat radiation, and others, must be confirmed and reported before the MPIO may be used, and all risks must be assessed. Once the MPIO has been thoroughly tested and proven reliable, it is expected that it will be able to check vertical vessels such as Fractionator Columns, Reactors, Contractors, and other difficult-to-reach elevated locations [33].
 
 Figure 2.13 A top view of a flare-stack with 30x optical zoom function, at 30-40 meters [33] 

Palomba did another research on UAV inspections and environmental benefits. The collapse of commodity prices has forced asset owners in industries like oil to take several shortcuts in terms of inspections and due diligence, with negative effects for both their operations' safety and the environment [34]. Because it is specifically built to function in restricted spaces, the drone is 40cm in diameter and has a carbon-fiber protective cage that allows it to reach and explore areas off-limits to practically all standard flying robots. This drone does not avoid collisions with obstructions like other robots; instead, it navigates the environment by contacting surfaces and objects due to the reduced exposure of human personnel to dangerous missions in confined places and the reduced chance of industrial incidents such as spillage or leaks. It also results in improved environmental performance because of increased facility efficiency. The goal is that as more asset owners see the value of this tool for improving their bottom line, both financially and environmentally, the number of people who use it will grow [34]. 

 
Figure 2.14 Traditional visual inspection performed inside of an industrial tank [34]
Aiello et al. researched the employment of UAVs for analyzing and mitigating disasters risks in industrial sites. Maintaining accurate and up-to-date information on potential accident areas is critical for safely preventing disasters and planning the rescue process. In such circumstances, regular safety inspections are carried out regularly, even though the inspection staff may be exposed to complex or hazardous surroundings [35]. The process entails calculating an overall risk score based on the UAV's unique characteristics and a quantitative assessment of the hazards of ground impact and mid-air collision. By comparing the risk score derived with an acceptability threshold, the viability of operations is assessed. The findings support using a droneassisted survey to get an up-to-date and precise picture of the site under investigation. In the event of criticalities, the quality of the outcome could be assessed in terms of predictive maintenance interventions. The development of a non-aggressive drone with adequate sensing and monitoring capabilities could thus be a key area of research shortly to dramatically improve the use of UAV technology for disaster relief [35]. 
 
Figure 2.15 Flowchart of the risk assessment methodology [25]
Finally, in the recent years the methods of inspection oil and gas tanks that have been developed during different time span and brief description of the work. These are summarized below in Table 2-1. 
2.4 Image processing
Harry G. Bartholomew and Maynard D. McFarlane perform the first data compression image scanning for faxing from London to New York.  The transfer time is thus reduced from more than a week to less than three hours.  There is no real development after that until the post-war period. Signal processing grew in importance at the end of World War II with the advent of radar.  Oil drilling is also a major contributor to the development of signal processing technologies. The real boom in image processing did not occur until the 1960s when computers began to be powerful enough to work with images.  Soon, the rediscovery of the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) revolutionized the field, by making it possible to manipulate the frequency content of signals on a computer with Wavelet and Multimodal Images [36].
According to M. Ali et al., research regarding the detection of defects on cylindrical objects surface using a vision system, the hardware instruments required to verify the defects of cylindrical objects and perform comparisons between the lines scan and matrix camera are of primary concern [37]. However, specific settings are required for the inspected object to conduct experiments and acquire photos. Each system will collect images of the inspected cylindrical item, which will then be processed in Matlab utilizing image processing. The optimum design for inspection will be chosen after comparing the two systems based on factors. Visual examination using the naked eye, magnifying lens, and cameras are only a few of the inspection methods used to detect an object's faults in general. However, naked eye and magnifying class visual tests are ineffective and have several disadvantages. The result is for various applications; the line scan camera system should examine cylindrical items with many diameters, high-resolution pictures for inspected objects, and accurate images without distortions [4]. Apart from that, Canan Tastimur et al. researched the identification of flaws in railways. In railway transportations, rail defect detection has vastly improved [38]. Rail defects are a significant source of safety and financial concern. Morphological feature extraction is advised in the research to figure out the problems on the rail line, according to the real-time video processing technique that was applied. The defects in the rail route can be discovered by applying Hough Transform and image processing algorithms to pictures of rails received from a real-time camera. After the properties of the detected rail images are extracted using morphological approaches, the defective regions are determined. Image processing techniques can detect head check, fracture, scour, and undulation failures. The findings of this study were achieved with great precision, under various illumination conditions, and with the rail pointed in different directions [39]. Another research done by Cazzato et al. object detection is without a doubt the most critical low-level activity, and RGB cameras are by far the most used sensors to do it due to their inexpensive cost, small size, and extensive literature on RGB-based object detection [6]. Their solution is well integrated with current EU rules and procedures for uncrewed aircraft operations. Furthermore, the primary applications that present their own scientific and technological peculiarities are illustrated and how specific state-of-the-art deep learning architectures are tailored for the situation under consideration. Finally, the various datasets created expressly to test object detection from aerial views are described and reported. It was discovered that sensors like thermal imaging and 3D cameras have matured to the point where they can boost detection performance. Learning from multimodal sensors provides a fantastic opportunity to deeply capture correspondences across modalities and obtain an in-depth understanding of the scene. Hence a proposed method to develop this study concerns non-heterogeneous data originating from multiple sensing devices [40].

Table 2-1: Literature review
N	Name and Year	Problem	Method and tools	Results	Future work
1	Huai Yu, Wen Yang, Heng Zhang, Wanjun He
2017 [14]	Using UAV for detecting cracks on the lateral sides and underside of concrete bridges
	Onboard camera can capture images of bridge surface in a high resolution
	The primary experimental results on real bridges demonstrate the applicability and efficiency of the 
And UAV-based crack inspection system.	Developing a more flexible UAV platform with up-ward camera and increasing the accuracy of mapping the crack.
2	Long Wang, Zijun Zhang
2017 [15]	To make a framework that can automatically detect wind turbine (WT) blade surface cracks by using uav camera image.
	Using Haar-like features. Logit Boost Cascading Classifier.
	A promising result was obtained through the proposed framework. Meanwhile, the detection process was completed rapidly and this advantage allowed the potential application of the proposed framework in detecting WT blade cracks from video streams.	



3	JIAQI XI, LIFENG SHENTU, JIKANG HU, AND MIAN LI.
2017.[16]	To minimizing the impact of non-uniform illumination for steel billet inspection.
	Using Image Formation Process.
	The algorithm has been successfully applied in the real-time surface inspection for steel billet	The mechanism for the blurring effect will be studied and an anti-filter will be designed to
Table 2.1, continued
					compensate for this degradation
4	Paolo Bellezza Quater, Francesco Grimaccia, Sonia Leva, Marco Mussetta, Mohammadreza Aghaei.
2014.[17]	To detecting different kinds of PV modules failures by using UAVs.
	Using Thermal and Infrared camera, and Visual Detection	The experimental results show that the UAVs can detect different kind of failures of PV modules
	A methodology to automatically correlate specific sensor data with the defects in PV modules will be investigated in order to obtain fast and reliable results.
5	Goon Li Hung, Mohamad Safwan, Bin Sahimi, Hussein Samma, Tarik Adnan Almohamad, and Badr Lahasan
7 April 2020.[18] 
	Using UAV for searching for missing persons surveillance of illegal immigrants, and monitoring of critical infrastructure.	Inspection can be done by applying the R-CNN form.	Results show that Faster R-CNN was able to achieve a promising result with 98% precision, 99% recall, and 98% F1 measure.
	As a future work, additional work could be conducted by applying Faster R-CNN model to handle various real-world drone-based inspection tasks such as roads and roofs inspections.
6	Vidya Sudevan, Amit Shukla, Hamad Karki
Oct   2018
.[19]	Using UAV for Inspection of Vertical Structures in Oil and Gas Industry	Using HD camera Infrared camera, Thermal camera, LiDAR, gas detection sensors, various NDT testing equipment		As a future work (i) autonomously identify the structure to be inspected, 
(ii) automatically generate the tracking trajectory and (iii) to navigate along the identified structure. and The UAV capability of autonomously scanning along flat or curved surfaces. keeping the inspection camera aligned perpendicularly to the inspected area while avoiding possible obstacles along the way.
7	Kyriacos Themistocleous, Kyriacos Neocleousa, Kypros Pilakoutasb and Diofantos G. Hadjimitsisa.
Jun-2014.[20]	Using UAV for identify the actual extent and severity of damage to attached road pavements across their life cycle.
	data, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), Spectroscopy and Ground Penetrating Radar (GRP)		Of the integration of non-destructive remote sensing technologies, including remotely sensed aerial and satellite visual and thermal image (AI)
Table 2.1, continued
8	Rami A. Mattar and Remy Kalai
24 February 2018.[21]	using drones to sticking on wall structure at harsh environment	using robot control and   EMs system with ultrasonic	The experimental result show that the drones tacks off and hovers then stick on the wall	
9	Amit Shukla1 and Huang Xiaoqian and Hamad Karki
2016[22]	To making control mechanism for autonomous inspection of linear ground oil and gas pipeline by an UAVs flying at very low altitude	Algorithm for edge detection, HD CMOS video camera with 720 pixels (1280*720), VGA CMOS video camera QVG (320*240), PID controller, two down-facing ultrasonic, micro electro-mechanical system	accurate tracking of pipeline is achieved with acceptable error margin	
10	Moses Alum and Tobechukwu Eze
2020.[23]	To finding out the new techniques of corrosion and damage detection in oil and gas facilities
	The new techniques are
1-Robotic Crawler technique for in-service Tank Inspection
2-Pulsed-Eddy current method for detecting Corrosion-under-Insulation (CUI)
1113-In-line Inspection (ILI) of undiggable pipelines
4-Flare Tip In-service Inspection using Drones.	 	
10	Moses Alum and Tobechukwu Eze
2020.[23]	To finding out the new techniques of corrosion and damage detection in oil and gas facilities
	The new techniques are
1-Robotic Crawler technique for in-service Tank Inspection
2-Pulsed-Eddy current method for detecting Corrosion-under-Insulation (CUI)
	 	
Table 2.1, continued
			1113-In-line Inspection (ILI) of undiggable pipelines
4-Flare Tip In-service Inspection using Drones.		
11	Muhammad Rakeh Saleem1, Jong-Woong Park1, Jin-Hwan Lee2, Hyung-Jo Jung2, and Muhammad Zohaib Sarwar3
1 Jul 2020.[24]
	Using UAV for Instant bridge visual inspection an instant damage identification and localization	Using ICGT, R-CNN.
	A recall of 81.6% and a mAP of 77.5% was achieved with proposed configuration. The proposed method successfully projected damage on to a scaled global damage map	In the future, this system can be extended to multiclass damage detection such as corrosion, spalling, efflorescence, and formwork. An extension to this approach for damage detection would be to project the image on to a three-dimensional point cloud and using building information modeling (BIM) to advance damage detection for bridges.
12	Xiong Peng ,1 Xingu Zhong ,2 Chao Zhao,2 Y. Frank Chen,3 and Tianyu Zhang2
11/7/2020.[25]	Using UAV for Recognition Bridge Crack Width	A novel method combining the R-FCN and support vector machine is proposed. R-FCN and high-speed camera system














	achieve more than 91% average precision. Especially, the proposed method has good accuracy in bridge crack width calculation, as it can achieve more than 90% precision compared with manual measurement	future work improves the reliability of bridge inspection based on UAV, through develop different UAV system with different loads equipment and improve the flight controllers in wind resistance ability based on more experimental results. And the complex situation of the environment wind, UAV wing rotation, and bridge near-wind 
Table 2.1, continued
					has not been quantified by numerical simulation. In the future, it is necessary to improve the aerodynamic configuration design of bridge inspection UAV according to more experimental and simulation results of UAV approaching bridge.
13	Yunpeng Wu, Yong Qin, Zhipeng Wang, and Limin Jia
2018.[26]	To inspect the rail surface defects using UAV.	Using LWLC for image enhancement and GSME for defects segmentation.
	The quantitative experimental results show that, recall of 93.75% for T-I defects and of 94.26% for T-II defects and the inspection is efficient and feasible to detect rail surface defects based on UAV images.	models for rail defect classification based on UAV images and assess the health of rails and development of high UAV photography
14	Yung-Chun Liu, Yu-Lu Hsu and Yung-Nien Sun
2010.[27]	New computer vision system for automatic steel surface inspection	K-means and Genetic algorithms, SVM, Two neural networks, BPN and RVM, binary decision tree	the correct rate for each kind of defect image is all above 85%. The overall classification rate of the proposed architecture with BPN and RVM are 90.66% and 91.21%, respectively.  Though the RVM is slightly better.	
15	Ping Chen, Yunpeng Wu, Yong Qin, Huaizhi Yang and Yonghui Huang.
2 April 2020.[28]

	To inspect Rail Fastener Defect using UAV	a new traditional detection method using SVM and HOG features. Some approaches based on deep learning including Fastener RCNN, YOLOv3, improved 	a quantitative comparison experiment shows FPN acquires a mAP of 91.98%, which achieves favorable performance against state-of-the-art methods. 	In future, two aspects will be studied: firstly, we will explore better models for rail defect classification and health based on UAV images; secondly, with the 
Table 2.1, continued
			YOLOv3 and FPN are compared and applied for fastener defect detection



	Therefore, it is feasible to carry out fastener defect inspection with UAV images.	development of high UAV photography, faster detection models will be developed in complex environments to increase detection efficiency
16	V. T. Hoang, M. D. Phung, T. H. Dinh, and Q. P. Ha
2019.[29]


	Using multiple UAVs to real time control system for surface inspection
	particle swarm optimization algorithm using angle-encoded PSO (θ-PSO), the Internet of Things (IoT), GCS, RCU, GPS, RTS, AD/DA converter, PWM, Internet protocol (IP) based networks, TCP, UDP, RTP, the 3DR Solo drone, 3D gimbal and other sensors, Hero 4 Black camera	a histogram-based segmentation algorithm has been developed for online detection of potential defects with high accuracy. A number of experiments have been conducted with real-world defects detected from the data acquired by a triangular formation of UAVs. Comparisons and discussions have been also presented to evaluate the performance of the proposed system	
17	Songsak Yoon, Gi-Hun Gwon, Jin-Hwan Lee and Hyung-Jo Jung
24 May 2020
.[30]	the three-phase missing region of interest area detection and damage localization using UAV.
	Based on three-dimensional image coordinates was proposed	Experimental validation results have shown that the proposed methodology identifies missing areas and damage locations within reasonable accuracy of 10 cm	the future, it is expected that the acquisition of high-resolution images and the development of improved stitching methodologies will enable more accurate comparisons with the proposed approach
18	Kevin Yu, Prajwal Shanthakumar, Jonah Orevillo, Eric Bianchi, Matthew Hebdon 	Of infrastructure inspection using an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) in box 	using two 2D LIDARS scanning in horizontal and vertical planes.
The solution was	The results showed The LIDAR can scan at up to 10Hz	Adapting ideas from our present approach to different types of bridges (which could require 
Table 2.1, continued
	and Pratap Tokekar.
 3 Oct 2019.[31]
	girder bridge environments	design Planning and Navigation Algorithms		working with other sensors such as Stereo camera for navigation) is a future direction
19	Mohammed A. H. Ali, Au Kai Lun.
19 December 2018.[32]	To inspect defect detection and classification on the lateral surface of industrial cylindrical object.	A cascading fuzzy logic with image processing algorithm using one camera and 6 flat mirrors.	Results show that the defects can be detected if the ratio of detection is higher than 0.1 and the accuracy of defectiveness levels is 80%.	
20 	Mohammed A.H. Ali & Mohammed A. Alshameri (2018)
Problem [33]
	automated engagement intelligent spanner that is capable of autonomously changing its jaws’ size according to the diameters of the bolt’s/nut’s heads
	Fuzzy logic and vision system
	The results show the capability of image processing and fuzzy logic algorithms in making the right decisions on the diameter of bolts/nuts with 99% successful rate.	

2.6 Summary
Inspectors have been working for decades to find ways to inspect oil and gas tanks using robots and UAV. These methods are slowly becoming a reality due to Variety of robots and UAV that detect defects in oil and gas tanks early before tank damage occurs. The desire of inspectors to gain the ability to inspect oil and gas tanks using robots and UAV is not old. These ideas have become the most popular among researchers, and there are many researches that talk about them. So, we collect more details view on researches to the field of methods of inspect oil and gas tanks using robots and UAV.
















CHAPTER 3


METHODOLOGY


3.1 Research Methodology
The research methodology of this project includes seven steps with novel inspection technique as follows:
	Literature Review:
 literature review through the previous study, the problem became more evident and the gap that we will overcome, which is early detection of rust and corrosion that affects oil and gas tanks, has been identified. The tanks will be inspected by analyzing the images captured by the UAV and determining whether they are defective or not.
	Design and Fabrication of UAV system: 
The goal of this stage is to design UAV with a suitable control system capable of making the plane flying with different heights and moves in all directions to locate position convenient to take pictures and its ability to send data over long distances. The control systems elements such as sensors and actuators that will help to sense the defects of oil facilities will be added to the UAV.  
	Development of Image and signal processing-based inspection: 
When you take pictures using a UAV there are several factors affecting the quality of the pictures such as lighting heterogeneity, reflection of the sunlight, dust on the surface of the tanks and other. All these challenges can be reduced by using image processing. The operation of processing working images operate on the removal of jamming, noise, fog, flashing, contrast, and other imperfections on the images. In this step, the image processing algorithms will be selected to overcome these challenges and get improved images. The algorithm can be divided into three main stages, namely, image pre-processing, image processing and image post processing. in the 1st one, several operations will be applied to prepare image for next stage, however in image processing, the filtration and more depth process will be applied. In image postprocessing, the features related to visual defects on the oil facilities surface will be determined. A signal processing for the ultrasonic sensor will be applied to eliminate the noise from sensors data. A sensor fusion algorithm will be applied to fuse the data coming from image and signal processing. 
	Development of AI based defect classification:
A new AI algorithm based human experts transferred on laser simulator logic algorithm will be developed to distinguish between defects and noise (low & medium noise).  Laser Simulator Logic algorithm is a novel inference system based artificial intelligence algorithm that can deal well with the noise coming from high degree of overlapping between linguistic variables. In other words, it helps to avoid the drawbacks of fuzzy logic when there are a high overlapping between linguistic variable as will be discussed later in details. As shown in Fig. 1, such high inference system will cause to make the accumulative membership values for a crisp input/output exceeding 1 as shown in cases x1, x2, x3 and x4 in Fig. 1.  
The membership value of the crisp input x1 across all three linguistic variables has an accumulative membership value higher than 1. Thus there is a need to make a dynamic range for values of 1 when there is a high inference between linguistic variables in membership functions as shown in Fig. 1, to accommodate the noises coming from the high inference/overlapping of linguistic variables, which can vary from low level in region 1 until high level in region 3. This can be accomplished by dividing the universe of discourse into regions that have different scale of membership based on the inference between linguistic variables e.g. there are 5 regions in Fig. 1.

 
Fig. 1 High inference membership function

Most of the users utilize the fuzzy logic system in the form of identical triangular, Gaussian or trapezoidal membership functions in which the linguistic variable can be generally divided into two parts, 
1st one is located before the middle of the linguistic variable and other one is located after the middle; both give membership values that are proportional to the input location. In fact, the laser simulator logic depends mainly on this proportional properties between the membership values and its location in the range of input/output sets to form the input/output membership functions as shown in Fig. 2. In other words, it will determine the membership values of each linguistic variable based on its position in the range of linguistic variable in the input sets as in Eq. 1 and 2; and apply the implication to the output set based on the fuzzy rules of the system. 
Let’s consider a fuzzy set R as a set function on the universe of discourse X, with membership function  μ_i:X→[0  1] , which can be written: R={(x,μ_i (x))   |  x∈X}
The equations of laser simulator will be derived in 2 cases: - (1) memberships without inference between the linguistic variables, (2) membership with lowly/highly overlapped linguistic variables. Fig. 3 show the behaviour of LS with overlapping in linguistic variables.  

 
Fig. 2 Fuzzy Logic and Laser Simulator performance with overlapped linguistic variables of membership functions

	Development of UAV control system 
The control system based on point-to-point control will be applied to allow the UAV to move autonomously to all area of the oil facilities. Only the landing off and on will be done through remote controlling however other movement of UAV will be done autonomously through active force control. active force control has two loops to control the parameters, inner loop for dynamic control, and outer loop for kinematic control.  
	Real time Testing of UAV inspection technique: The goal of this step is to test the UAV inspection technique in various circumstances and make the necessary adjustments to make it more suitable and flexible to meet certain challenges. We do various tests of our inspection technique during different hours of daylight, and we also test tanks of different colors and sizes. We test the inspection technique in terms of its ability to movement and transport   between the tanks and taking several of pictures from different locations and distances. The inspection technique will be configured a number of times to ensure that the technique works on a specific framework and with appropriate performance.
	Performance and Evaluation: The performance of the inspecting technique and the analysis of its experimental results will be critically evaluated. Research results must have important insights and information capable of contributing to the development and improvement of the inspection technique. The analysis must depend largely on results our findings from the use of the inspection technique in the real environment.

